It has been proposed that Grid Cells may represent a lower-rank approximaiton of space as encoded by Place Cells, facilitating generalisation of environmental structure for flexible use across tasks. Dordek et al. 2015 have demonstrated this by applying Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to Place Cell firing rates simulated during exploration of an environment. When projecting Place Cell inputs back into 2D space (under non-negative constraints), this approach generated hexagonal grid-like firing maps.

Main files to run code from...

Algorithmic_PCA > NNPCA_alg : basic implementation of standard PCA and NNPCA (using "Montanari A, Richard E. Non-negative principal component analysis: Message Passing Algorithms and Sharp Asymptotics" approach) as in Dordek et al. 2015, with various Place Cell parameter options to compare.

Algorithmic_PCA > SR_eigdecomp : Alternative approach to PCA, Successor Representation (SR) matrix (Stachenfeld, 2014), with Place Cell firing used as successor features, using Temporal Difference Learning Rule (TDLR), over a randomly generated foraging trajectory (with agent turning away from boundary walls, and changing velocity). Eigendecomposition is performed on resulting SR Matrix, and eigvectors with highest corresponding eigenvalues are projected back into space by using the reweighted Place Cell inputs, to generate Grid Cell firing rate maps. 

NeuralNet_PCA > Hebbian_NN : Neural Network implementation of PCA, using Ojas rule to train a network of Place cells inputing to Grid cells such that weigths converge to Principle Components, Grid firing fields are generated by reweighting Place Cell inputs according to converged weights. 

Plotting : Some Grid Firing field properties (generated using both algorithmic and Neural Network implementations of Non-negative PCA) are compared, using uniformly distributed Place Cells and Place cells which are more densly distributed and have narower firing fields as a function of their distance to environmental boundaries. 
Gridness (square and hexagonal), grid spacing, orientation, and potential shearing of resulting grid fields are assessed, across boundary and central regions of the environments.

